Data center:

Availability zones:
Cluster of Data center

Region:
Cluster of Availability zones

Factors to consider:


Local Zones:
Low latency. Local data processing. Consistent AWS experience.

Edge locations:
Cache content in the Edge locations near the customers. Faster content delivery. Better user experience.
Does not allow to deploy apps. 
Key service is CloudFront.


AWS architect responsibilities:
Plan:
Research:
Build:


AWS well-architected tool:
Define workload
Conduct architectural review
Apply best practices

AWS well-architected Framework pillars:(CORPSS)
Security
Cost optimization
Reliability
Performance efficiency
Operational excellence
Sustainability

----------

###Accounts and Security:

Principals and identities:
	root user - can access any service in any region, unrestricted access.
	For login - email and password is needed
	12 digit AccountID will be created which will be used for IAM users login.

	IAM - Identity and Access Management:
		Authentication and Authorization.
		Used to create and manage users, groups and roles.
		Manage access to AWS services and resources.
		Analyze access controls.
		
	Principals:
		IAM user.
		Federated user or Identity provider(IdP).
		AWS service - Ex: EC2 to access S3 bucket.
		IAM Role - Temporary access. Can be provided for both user and service.
		- Policies are assigned to Users and Groups.
		- Policies are assumed by Users and Services.
	
		IAM users:
			
			IAM users and AWS API calls:
				Console access - AWS management console.
				Programmatic access - Access Key ID and Secret Access Key is needed.
					- AWS CLI
					- AWS SDKs
				For login - AccountId, userName and password is needed.
			
	
Security policies:
	Granting permissions:
		Policy types:
			Grant permissions:
				- IAM identity-based policies:
					IAM policy document structure must have Effect, Action and Resource(EAR). Version and Condition are optional.
					- AWS managed 
						- Service access
						- Job function
					- Customer managed
				- IAM resource-based policies:
					IAM policy document structure must have Principal(AccountID), Effect, Action and Resource(PEAR). Version and Condition are optional.
	Explicity Deny has precedence for Explicit Allow.
	IAM Permission Boundaries - Helpful in providing full access to a group and need to restrict few users to some access.
	Service Control Policies(SCP) - OU level restriction to services. AWS organizations.
